   
Contact
saiabinesh@gmail.com
www.linkedin.com/in/saiabinesh
(LinkedIn)
Top Skills
Synthetic Data Generation
High Performance Computing (HPC)
Image Analysis
Certifications
Six Sigma Black Belt
Sai Abinesh Natarajan
AI Researcher and Analyst
Galway, County Galway, Ireland
Summary
Currently a deep learning research engineer working on automotive
vision perception towards self driving cars at Valeo Vision systems
at Tuam, Ireland. Did my PhD with an EU funded project called
ROCSAFE, in Deep learning, for image and sensor data analysis. I
also have a Masters in Data Analytics that gave me a good hands-on
in state-of-the-art techniques and tools, in Machine learning, Natural
Language Processing, Web mining, Big data, and Interactive Web
visualization. 
My experience as a data analyst covers various industries ranging
from healthcare, finance and consulting to engineering and
education. Having done financial statement analysis and accounting
as a part of data analysis for clients, I believe that analytical insights
should lead to a tangible financial impact. 
I have had the opportunity to acquire a diverse skillset and
background. I have worked as an industrial automation programmer.
I am also a certified Six-Sigma Black-belt and implemented the same
in Syspro Automation. I have excellent communication skills which I
had the opportunity to leverage, when conducting in-house training
workshops in previous companies, and also during my time as an
employability skills trainer.
When I am not doing assignments, studying, playing badminton,
dancing, kayaking, or doing radio shows in my university, I like to
read and watch about subjects that interest me, which are a lot:
insightful and thought-provoking books like Thinking, Fast and Slow
and Antifragile; scientific(especially cognitive science) documentaries
of BBC, NGC, and Discovery Channel; actionable TED talks;
biographies of the likes of Nikola Tesla, Warren Buffett, Steve Jobs,
Michael Jackson and Elon Musk.
Keywords: Deep learning, Remote Forensics, Artificial Intelligence,
Machine learning, Tableau, Microsoft PowerPivot, R, Power BI,
  Page 1 of 3   
Python, Java, Spark, Data visualization, Data Modelling, Data
analyst, Business Analyst
Experience
National University of Ireland, Galway
Research Scholar
September 2017 - December 2024 (7 years 4 months)
County Galway, Ireland
Valeo
Deep Learning Research Engineer
April 2022 - October 2024 (2 years 7 months)
Tuam, Ireland
Fine tuned convolutional neural networks to develop perception algorithms for
automotive car cameras.
BIsquared Consulting Private Limited
Data Analyst
April 2015 - February 2016 (11 months)
Implemented full cycle Business Intelligence projects in various industries.
Handled Data Wrangling and Transformation with R. Proficient in Tableau and
Microsoft BI stack.
SMART Training Resources India Private Ltd.
Verbal and Employability skills trainer
September 2014 - March 2015 (7 months)
Chennai Area, India
Trained Engineering undergrads on-campus in Verbal and Soft skills for career
placement aptitude and readiness.
Syspro Automation
Automation Engineer
September 2011 - April 2013 (1 year 8 months)
Chennai Area, India
Programmed and deployed PLC(Programmable Logic Controllers) and
DCS(Distributed Control Systems) equipment for deployment in thermal
powerplants and other industrial plants. Designed and drew displays for
Human Machine Interfaces including some well-known SCADA systems.
  Page 2 of 3   
Education
University of Galway
Doctor of Philosophy - PhD, Artificial Intelligence · (September 2017 - February
2025)
National University of Ireland, Galway
Master of Science (MSc) in Data Analytics, Data Analytics · (2016 - 2017)
MNM Jain Engineering College
BE, Electrical & Electronics Engineering · (2007 - 2011)
SBOA Matriculation and Higher Secondary School, Annanagar.
Higher Secondary School, Mathematics and Science · (2005 - 2007)
Pushpalatha
  Page 3 of 3
